import { Banner } from '../components/blocks'
import { BaseStyles, Container } from 'theme-ui'

<Banner>

<Container variant="wide">

[@lachlanjc](https://lachlanjc.me)’s

# 2019 <span>in Review</span>

</Container>

</Banner>

<Container sx={{ color: 'text', fontSize: 2, py: [3, 4] }}>

<BaseStyles>

Each year in my recent life seems to double the scope of the last. In
[2017](https://lachlanjc.me/2017), I started my [high school coding
club](https://twitter.com/zachlatta/status/955522122750701568?s=20), came out
(twice), went to San Francisco for the first time, went to my first hackathon,
got my black belt, and started working at [Hack Club](https://hackclub.com). In
2018, I organized my [first hackathon](https://hackhappyvalley.com), opened
gender-neutral bathrooms at my school, moved to San Francisco for the summer to
[build Hack Club
Bank](https://medium.com/hackclub/a-bank-for-student-hackers-e5d894ea5375),
[traveled](https://hackchicago.io)
[more](https://www.instagram.com/p/BmI9vIqnRqP/), helped [teach sex
ed](https://gasp.netlify.com), went to my [first
concert](https://www.instagram.com/p/Bop7pA2nova/), and more.

The last few years of my life were transformative beyond belief—I feel like with
each passing year I became an entirely new person. 2017 was the first year as a
teenager I experienced really being happy in my life, and in 2018 I did work I’m
really proud of. 2019 was by far my most productive year (not being in high
school sure helped!), and I found my adventures incredibly gratifying. I
traveled more than I ever have, had a ton of new experiences, and arrived at
real peace with my identity/image. I’m moving into a new phase of my life now
(being in college), but I couldn’t have asked for a better, more Lachlan way to
cap off my real “teenage years.”

I’ve assembled this website over the last two months to archive some of my story
& experiences & projects & favorite things of 2019. Enjoy looking at my life, if
you’re into that!

***

## Winter

This year started off with a bang. In January, I graduated high school (a
semester) early. Balancing intense creative work with high school had long
become an utterly draining juggling act of sleep deprivation, dealing with
grades, and trying to build anything in the world. Though my teachers were
pretty across-the-board great, leaving seemed uniquely liberating, like I could
finally take flight.

The day after leaving high school, I hosted [Hack
Pennsylvania](https://hackpenn.com), the culmination of thousands of hours of
work on the part of me & my incredible co-organizers
([Matthew](https://matthewstanciu.me/), Joy, [Zane](https://zane.sh/),
[Theo](https://tmb.sh/), & Jasmine). As two feet of snow fell throughout the
weekend, 111 students grades 6-12 descended on my hometown in central
Pennsylvania to build 40+ incredible games, robots, apps, & more. We raised $15k
to make it happen, and the weekend was truly unforgettable. Our town had no real
opportunities for teenagers in tech—nearly half of attendees were entirely new
to coding—and helping unlock the doors to coding brought my high school coding
club to a new peak. We had ice cream at midnight, a 2am dance party, & lots
more…

The next day, I left for LA (first time!) for a retreat with the Hack Club team.
Hack Club, a community of high school makers & coding club leaders around the
world, is a cause I deeply believe in. Humanity is facing challenges like never
before, and now more than ever, we need a generation of young people equipped
with the agency & skills to create deep change. (Coding clubs, it turns out, are
just the first step.) At the retreat, in the mountains of Idyllwild, CA, our
remote team finally got to bond & spend a week in offline discussion mode,
planning another year of work for the community.

Briefly back at home, I had the privilege to model for a pop-up fashion show put
on by my LGBTQ+ youth group, opening a trans clothing exchange at a local café.
It was a blast.

## Spring

Never one to waste time, [Zach Latta](https://zachlatta.com/), the founder of
Hack Club & my dear friend, called me about coming back to San Francisco. I
packed up & moved out for 1.5 whirlwind months. In short order, based partly off
my experiences running Hack Pennsylvania, we entirely [redesigned & launched
Hack Club Bank](https://hackclub.com/bank/), our tool for high schoolers to get
nonprofit bank accounts to run hackathons & more. I stayed up for 55 hours
attending [Los Altos Hacks](https://www.losaltoshacks.com/) with the Hack Club
team, Theo, & [Kat](https://katmh.com). I went to my first [Conan
Gray](https://g.co/kgs/v6vw2S) concert. I had an unforgettable evening with the
stunning [Amanda Southworth](https://twitter.com/amndasuthwrth).

One truly special memory from my time in San Francisco was my close friend
Matthew visiting. Over a nighttime hike, we realized our mutual affection &
began a relationship better than I could ever have predicted.

For all the advantages of being surrounded by tech, I found living in SF rather
isolating and overwhelming. I returned home to take a break and see some
friends, before leaving for Indiana to briefly visit Matthew and heading to a
second Hack Club team retreat in Idyllwild. With a slightly different mix of
team members, we had a fantastic time chatting, cooking, hiking, & exploring
nearby towns together.

Though compressed periods of stress can lead to bursts of creativity, extended
periods of rested focus have few parallels. Back at home, I continued working
for Hack Club, designing new pages such as [Hack
Camp](https://hackclub.com/camp/). Meanwhile, after starting late February,
organizing heated up for [Windy City Hacks](https://windyhacks.com), a June
hackathon in Chicago led by Matthew. Matthew came to visit for a beautiful
period. Anticipating a summer of traveling & personal time, I said goodbye to my
teammates at Hack Club, and attended my high school’s prom & graduation for a
final farewell there.

## Summer

Soon, I headed to Chicago for Windy City Hacks. After thousands more hours of
organizing by Matthew, me & the [whole
team](https://2019.windyhacks.com/#leadership), raising nearly $14k, and days of
local preparation, 160 students came from Chicago & across the Midwest for
another remarkable weekend of hacking.

Afterwards I joined Hack Clubbers from across the country in descending on San
Francisco for Hack Club/Make School’s Flagship conference, where 

At home, liberated from the majority of previous commitments, I 

To round out the summer, I loaded up my parents’ car and headed to New York City
to start at NYU, where I’m majoring in “Interactive Media Arts” (making art with
tech/coding/building)

</BaseStyles>

</Container>
